Welcome everyone to this lecture on the inserts command as you may have already guessed.
Insert allows you to add in or insert rows into a table.
The general syntax looks like this.
We say insert into the side on the table name and then also clarify which column values we're going
to be providing.
And then we say values and add in a list of values.
Keep in mind you can also have a syntax for inserting values from another table.
This looks kind of similar.
We'll say insert into table the side on the columns were inserting two and then we say select those
matching columns from some other table where some condition happens to be true so something to keep
in mind especially for the previous statement of inserting from another table the inserted row values
must match up for the table including constraints.
So if one of your constraints was that the column is not normal then you must provide a value as you
insert.
Otherwise you'll get an error.
If you're grabbing information from another table and inserting it into your table that you're currently
using then you must make sure that those actual columns also match up for things like data type.
Another thing to keep in mind is that the serial columns especially for those primary keys they actually
do not need to be provided a value.
Recall that Serial is a sequence so it's going to automatically update the next available integer for
that row.
OK let's go ahead and actually work through some syntax examples using P.G. ataman.
All right.
Here I am inside of P.G. admin.
Let's go ahead and recall what we actually use for our account table that we created previously to do
that.
I'm going to in my query editor say select everything from accounts run this and you shouldn't get back
any data because we haven't inserted anything yet.
And I can see here I have user I.D. username password email created on and last log in.
Recall that user I.D. is serial data type so I don't need to worry about providing that and also recall
that the last log in column didn't have any constraints so I don't need to actually provide one of those.
Everything else I believe had some sort of not novel or unique constraint so we will need to provide.
So let's go ahead and show you how you can insert into this table.
We're going to say insert into and then the account table name which was just account and in the columns
we're going to provide.
We're going to provide a user name a password an email and then we also say created on and then after
this we're going to say values and then we provide the list of values.
So let's go ahead and choose a username we'll go ahead and have the user name be who's a the password.
Typically you don't save passwords as strings in a database they'll be a hashed version of a password.
But just for learning syntax we'll say that Jose's password is password the email will go ahead and
have this be who's a at mail dot com to the made up address and then make sure we say created on.
So check for that type of there.
So created on make sure that matches up.
And now we just going to provide a timestamp and in order to save time instead of providing a long string
code for a timestamp that includes the dates and the time I can actually use from our timestamp lectures
the current timestamp functionality so I can say current underscore timestamp and you can review the
documentation and or timestamp lectures for a full list of these sort of timestamp function calls.
So this is just going to insert those values here into the table.
So let's go ahead and run this and you should see something that says query return successfully et cetera
and other data output will still see the same blank because we haven't actually asked again for the
information from account.
So let's go ahead and delete this and then say select everything from account run that.
And notice we get back user I.D. 1 so is automatically created for us.
We have a password whose hotmail dot com and then we have the created on a notice the last log in is
currently no.
So we were able to successfully insert into this new table now let's go ahead and practice inserting
into the job table.
So recall the job table.
We take a look at it here has the columns job I.D. and job name recall.
Job I.D. was surreal.
So I don't need to worry about actually providing a job I.D. So what I'll do here is I'll say insert
into and then we have the job.
Table the columns I'm going to insert is just the job name.
So what I'll do here is say job underscore.
Name then I'll say values that I'm going to insert here.
And job I.D. created automatically through serial.
So I just think it's a job name.
Let's go ahead and have the job now and be like an astronaut.
So say astronaut go ahead and run this we get back quicker return successfully.
Let's check on that by saying select everything from job run it and now I can I see I can see I have
a job I.D. one job name astronaut.
And let's add one more job just so we can explore this job.
I.D. so we'll say insert into job and we're going to insert a job name and we'll say values.
Let's go ahead and have it be president.
So we'll say President has another job.
Run that again and if we check out the table again select everything from job notice that the job I.D.
automatically being increased for us which is really nice.
OK so we have this job table with some job options and we have the account with basically kind of a
fake entry into the count.
Let's go ahead and finalize everything by actually doing one connection for an account job essentially
assigning the account I made myself to a job that's going to be a little different because we have that
foreign key set for us so what we're going to do here is we'll simply say like we did insert into we
will say account job passing a user I.D. a job I.D. and a higher date and expand on this just so we
can see the whole thing then we'll select the values we're going to insert and we'll say user I.D. is
one because that matches up with the first person we made in the account table.
We'll go ahead and haven't been an astronaut.
So that's job I.D. number one.
And then the higher dates should say current timestamp so we run this we get back query return successfully.
So let's go ahead and delete this.
Say select everything from the table which was account job run that then I can see user I.D. one job
I.D. one and they hire a date.
Let's go ahead and show you what happens if we try to insert someone whose user I.D. doesn't exist.
So I'm actually going to do control Z a few times to get back this command so just control ze a few
times should bring you back to insert into account job and I'm going to insert let's say user I.D. 10
with job I.D. 10 at my current timestamp.
Currently we don't have a user with user I.D. 10 oh we don't have a job I.D. with job I.D. 10.
So when I tried to run this notice what happens we get this error.
And the reason we're getting this error is because it's violating the Foreign key constraint.
So just like we have to provide information for things that are not null we have to make sure that when
we're inserting something that has a foreign key constraint that it actually exists in the other tables.
This is the exact kind of behavior and error you want.
Otherwise we're doing some sort of link that doesn't actually exist.
There was no user I.D. of 10.
There was no job I.D. of 10.
So keep that in mind.
These constraints will do things like stop information being inserted into it if it actually violates
the constraint.
OK.
So that's the details for how to insert data into a table.
We'll see you at the next lecture.